..
   Copyright Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-4.0

Development of a versatile platform for long-term underwater acoustic monitoring
================================================================================

:date: 2012-12-05
:tags: underwater-acoustics, conference-talk
:summary:
    As part of my academic research, I published a conference paper and gave a
    talk on the development of the UDAQ system for long-term underwater acoustic
    monitoring at the European Conference on Underwater Acoustics (ECUA) in July
    2012 in Edinburgh, Scotland.

As part of my academic research, I published a conference paper and gave a talk
on the development of the UDAQ system for long-term underwater acoustic
monitoring at the European Conference on Underwater Acoustics (ECUA) 2012 in
Edinburgh, Scotland.

The `conference paper`_ is available from the Acoustical Society of America.

.. _conference paper: https://pubs.aip.org/asa/poma/article/17/1/070037/981881/Development-of-a-versatile-platform-for-long-term

Abstract
--------

The requirement for acoustic monitoring of marine environments has increased in
recent years due to the desire of both scientists and governments to understand
how anthropogenic noise affects marine fauna. The available technology is also 
improving constantly, which allows new approaches and methods to be used in
tackling the above requirement. This modern technology allows a platform to be
developed which is capable of not only recording underwater acoustic signals but
also processing them in real-time on board a device which is self-contained,
battery powered and deployable to the sea floor. This opens up many
possibilities, such as using data compression to enable high bandwidth signals
(400kSamples/s) to be transmitted over narrow radio-frequency channels. It also
allows automated signal analysis to be performed and results (from third-octave
noise levels to an impact estimation) to be presented in a timely fashion to
decision makers - allowing mitigation actions to be taken. As technological
progress continues, ever more complex problems will be tackled by such devices
without the need for on-shore computer processing. Results will be presented for
the development of platform technologies to allow real-time broadband
processing of impact relevant data and subsequent storage and communication.
