..
   Copyright Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-4.0

Embedded Linux License Compliance for Hackers & Makers
======================================================

:date: 2021-02-07
:tags: yocto, conference-talk
:summary:
    I gave a talk on License Compliance in Embedded Linux at `FOSDEM 2021`_,
    aimed at hobbyists, hackers, makers and small businesses. This was a
    virtual conference due to the pandemic.

I gave a talk on License Compliance in Embedded Linux at `FOSDEM 2021`_, aimed
at hobbyists, hackers, makers and small businesses. This was a virtual
conference due to the pandemic.

Slides from this talk are available in `PDF`_ and `PowerPoint (pptx)`_ formats.

.. _FOSDEM 2021: https://archive.fosdem.org/2021/
.. _PDF: https://pub.pbarker.dev/presentations/2021-02-07%20FOSDEM%202021%20-%20Embedded%20Linux%20License%20Compliance%20for%20Hackers%20%26%20Makers/Embedded_Linux_License_Compliance_for_Hackers_Makers.pdf
.. _PowerPoint (pptx): https://pub.pbarker.dev/presentations/2021-02-07%20FOSDEM%202021%20-%20Embedded%20Linux%20License%20Compliance%20for%20Hackers%20%26%20Makers/Embedded_Linux_License_Compliance_for_Hackers_Makers.pptx

Abstract
--------

This presentation will cover the practices and tools you can use to improve
compliance with open source licenses as a hobbyist or small business using
OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project, Buildroot or other Embedded Linux build systems. The
focus will be on practical steps that don't require excessive time, effort or
consultation with expensive lawyers. This presentation will also discuss license
compliance pitfalls to avoid. No legal advice will be given in this talk.

Many presentations and articles about open source license compliance focus on
the needs of large corporate users of open source and aren't well suited to
individual hackers/makers or small businesses. However, even if you don't have
the public profile and deep pockets of a large organisation you should be
thinking about how you can empower users of your software or physical product to
take advantage of their rights around open source software. Rather that trying
to develop a comprehensive enterprise-grade open source policy what you need is
some steps to get started, some rules of thumb and some tools which are
relatively straightforward to use. License compliance is a process and even if
you don't feel you have the resources to achieve perfect compliance it's
important to take the steps that are within your reach.

Video
-----

.. youtube:: YZgis-eDtt8
