..
   Copyright (c) 2021 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-4.0

A mental health update
======================

:date: 2021-06-05
:tags: meta, blog
:summary: It's been a while since I posted here. I had high expectations of
          writing more and publishing regular YouTube videos. Then the "2nd
          wave" of COVID-19 in the UK happened...

This winter was pretty harsh on my mental health. Lockdown restrictions imposed
here in the UK to fight the spread of COVID-19 cut me off from my usual
routines and ways of keeping mentally healthy. My initial response was to fill
up my time with work and other projects but this didn't really work out. Days
became both monotonous and stressful, with no change of scenery or face-to-face
contact with friends to refresh things. There's no blame here on the folks I
was working with, everyone who I spoke to about this has been understanding and
supportive. If blame must the thrown then it can be aimed at the current UK
government and their completely inadequate response to this crisis.

I reduced my work hours, took a break from open source contributions for a bit
and put on hold my plans for more YouTube videos. This was frustrating after
having to take weeks off last year due to a COVID-19 infection and wasting a
lot of what could have been productive time on unnecessary bureaucracy (dealing
with impacts of Brexit & legislation changes on my consulting business). But
sometimes one hit is followed by another, and sometimes we have to accept that
our capabilities have been limited for a while.

.. figure:: https://img.pbarker.dev/misc/malham_2021-05.jpg
   :width: 100%
   :alt: The village of Malham (Yorkshire, UK) and the surrounding countryside
         seen from higher ground to the North.

   Malham and surrounding countryside in the Yorkshire Dales

At that start of May this year I was able to get away for a week in a cottage
in the hills of the Yorkshire Dales with my partner. Fresh air, sun, wind, rain
and the occasional hailstone blew off some of the "lockdown cobwebs" I'd
acquired. I've more recently also got to spend time catching up with friends
over a (mostly outdoor) couple of pints and this has done me a lot of good.
I've found energy & motivation returning and have been hacking on a few
projects again. I'm making sure to keep things sustainable though rather than
rushing back into being too busy.

I know that many folks have experienced similar difficulties in the last ~16
months, many have suffered worse and many are still struggling. None of us are
alone in this but our experiences do differ. I have been privileged to be able
to prioritise self care for a while, others are unable to make the changes they
need due to risks of debt, poverty and homelessness. As others have said, we're
not all in the same boat here - we're in the same sea, but some of us don't
even have a boat. If you're struggling with things then I hope that today and
tomorrow are better than yesterday for you and I urge you to take advantage of
any support you can find without feelings of guilt - we're in the middle of
multiple crises, none of this is your fault. If you're on dry land then I ask
you to support organisations which are helping people - in the UK I recommend
supporting `The Trussell Trust <https://www.trusselltrust.org/>`_ who provide
foodbanks and `Mind <https://www.mind.org.uk/>`_ who provide mental health
support.
