..
   Copyright (c) 2023 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-4.0

Syndication
===========

:date: 2023-04-10
:tags: open-culture, writing, indieweb, blog
:summary:
    Inspired by `Cory Doctorow <https://pluralistic.net/>`_, I've been thinking
    about the IndieWeb idea of `POSSE <https://pluralistic.net/>`_ (Publish on
    your Own Site, Syndicate Elsewhere) and how to extend the reach of my blog
    posts. So I'm trying something new and syndicating blog posts to `dev.to
    <https://dev.to/>`_, a mid-sized social media site for software developers.

Inspired by `Cory Doctorow <https://pluralistic.net/>`_, I've been thinking
about the IndieWeb idea of `POSSE <https://pluralistic.net/>`_ (Publish on your
Own Site, Syndicate Elsewhere) and how to extend the reach of my blog posts. So
I'm trying something new and syndicating blog posts to `dev.to
<https://dev.to/>`_, a mid-sized social media site for software developers.

dev.to makes this quite nice with native support a "canonical URL" for posts
originally published elsewhere. It's also pretty easy to repost existing content
to since it supports Markdown (my posts are written in reStructuredText for my
website but can be easily converted to Markdown using `pandoc
<https://pandoc.org/>`_) and future posts can be automatically shared to dev.to
via an RSS feed.

Existing posts on dev.to is variable in quality, and there are `multiple
<https://dev.to/samuelfaure/is-dev-to-victim-of-its-own-success-1ioj>`_ `posts
<https://wagslane.dev/posts/collapsing-quality-of-devto/>`_ criticising the
platform for low-quality blogspam, but I don't think that's a reason to avoid
posting to the platform (as long as it's not the exclusive home to your posts).
My goal here is to extend the reach of my writing, not to gain some sort of
prestige-by-association from the sites where I syndicate my posts, so the
presence of blogspam on dev.to doesn't put me off from sharing my posts there.
And blogspam is sadly a fact of life on any platform that's easy to post to.

It's also worth noting that I've considered and rejected syndicating my posts to
Medium due to their monetisation & obnoxious popups, and SubStack due to their
`problematic hosting of TERFs
<https://gen.medium.com/substack-is-not-a-neutral-platform-8fc5bdf8e5f2>`_.

So, assuming I don't find any reason to cancel this experiment, you'll be able
to read my writing at `dev.to/pbarker <https://dev.to/pbarker>`_ as well as
`on Mastodon <https://social.afront.org/@pbarker>`_ and here on my website.
