..
   Copyright (c) 2023 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-4.0

Rekeying
========

:date: 2023-04-16
:tags: pgp, ssh, home-network, blog
:summary:
   I've recently made a couple of changes to my development environments. As
   I've been configuring these environments, I've taken the opportunity to
   extend the lifetimes of my PGP keys (as they were nearing expiry) and
   generate new SSH keys.

I've recently made a couple of changes to my development environment(s):
I now have a shiny new Ryzen 7 7700 based development box (more details
of this box to follow in future posts...) and a WSL instance on my work
laptop (running Ubuntu 22.04 for maximum compatibility with my work
needs). As I've been configuring these environments, I've taken the
opportunity to extend the lifetimes of my PGP keys (as they were nearing
expiry) and generate new SSH keys.

PGP key lifetimes extended
--------------------------

I created two PGP keys back in May & June 2021 - one for when I'm
wearing my "personal" hat and one for when I'm wearing my "Principal
Software Engineer @ SanCloud Ltd" hat. Each key was created with an
initial lifetime of 2 years, which means the expiry dates have been
approaching. As both keys are still in use I've extended their
lifetimes, aligning both on a new expiry date of 2025-04-30. If you have
these keys in your keyring, please refresh them to pick up the new
expiry dates.

A `bundle containing both PGP keys </pgpkeys.asc>`__ can be downloaded
from this site. These keys are also available on
`keys.openpgp.org <https://keys.openpgp.org>`__, see their `usage
guide <https://keys.openpgp.org/about/usage>`__ for instructions on how
to fetch keys from that service.

I'd like to highlight Linux Foundation's excellent document `Protecting
code integrity with
PGP <https://github.com/lfit/itpol/blob/master/protecting-code-integrity.md>`__
which I used as my reference back in 2021 when originally creating these
keys and planning how they would be used. I referred to this document
again this week to remind me how to extend the lifetime of existing
keys. It's a comprehensive guide and set of best practices which I
highly recommend reading.

New SSH keys
------------

Each development environment has also been given a new SSH keypair. I
try not to cycle through keypairs too often in order to avoid additional
sysadmin work for both myself and those I work with, but a change once
every few years is ok. If either system is rebuilt or reinstalled within
the next couple of years, the appropriate keypair will be reused unless
there's a strong reason to change it.

If you ever need to give me remote access to a machine, please add the
following SSH public keys to the relevant ``authorized_keys`` file::

   ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIH7G2D7d165H9rohNED/MmnW68Z01U0AFYghi8vgT3Pv pbarker@tau.cephei.uk
   ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIPpzQXVeU/FgnPrN3KIayuvuAcFpymoovkHkGFTYz3bY pbarker@laptop.cephei.uk

These keys can also be downloaded as a `simple text
file </sshkeys.txt>`__ and verified with a `detached PGP
signature </sshkeys.txt.asc>`__.
